.TH qmediamanager 1
.SH NAME    \" Section header
.PP

qmediamanager - GUI app for managing removable media

\" Convention:
\" Underline anything that is typed verbatim - commands, etc.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
.na
[env QMEDIA_FM=command] qmediamanager /mount/point
.ad
.fi

.SH "PURPOSE"

.B QMediaManager
is a GUI application for managing removable media.  It is meant to be
launched by an automount service such as FreeBSD's sysutils/automount,
to provide the user options when removable media are inserted.

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.B QMediaManager
presents the following options:

1.  Filesystem info: Shows the mount point, filesystem type, device, and
basic statistics on the associated filesystem.

2.  Launch file manager: Launches the file manager indicated by the
environment variable QMEDIA_FM if defined.  If QMEDIA_FM is not define,
but ~/.config/qmediamanager exists, the command name or absolute path
of the file manager is read from this file.  If neither the QMEDIA_FM
not ~/.config/qmediamanager exists, qmediamanager searches for common
file managers, such as those included with popular desktop
environments, and uses the first one discovered.

The mount point is provided as a command-line argument to the file
manager, e.g. "lumina-fm /media/cd1".

3.  Reformat: Partitions and reformats the media with the user-selected
filesystem.  All partitions on the device are deleted.  The mount point
associated with the qmediamanager process is unmounted before
attempting to reformat.

Note that there will be multiple qmediamanager processes/windows open
if a connected device contains more than 1 mountable partition.
Reformat will fail if any other partitions on the device are mounted,
so all partitions except one must be unmounted before attempting a
reformat operation.

Only the most popular filesystems are offered by qmediamanager for
formatting.  Many others are available by using auto-media-format
from the command-line or by using fusefs tools directly.

Permission to reformat devices is determined by device daemons such as
FreeBSD's devd.  See devfs.conf(1) for details.  The FreeBSD desktop-
installer(1) script configures typical removable devices with write
permission for members of the operator group.  If your system was
configured using desktop-installer, formatting should work out of the
box in most cases.  Use of the auto-adduser(1) script, part of auto-
admin, is recommended for adding users, as it supports addition to
important groups such as operator, wheel, and video.

4.  Copy disk image to device.  Useful for creating installation media,
bootable live thumb drives, etc.

5.  Unmount: Unmounts the mount point associated with the window, using
"npmount umount /mount/point".  See npmount(1) for more information.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.nf
.na
QMEDIA_FM   File manager command to override default
.ad
.fi

.SH FILES

.B ~/.config/qmediamanager
should contain the command name or absolute pathname of the preferred
file manager, if one does not wish to use the default, or the
system does not have any of the file managers in the default search
list.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
npmount(1), mount(1), umount(1), devfs.conf(1), fusefs(1)

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to the author and send patches in unified diff format.
(man diff for more information)

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
.na
J. Bacon
